Doc/tutorial fix (#40)
eProsima/FastDDS-SH: doc/tutorial.md

# Tutorial
This tutorial intends to setup an entire dds and ros2 communication environment from zero.
To achieve this, we need to deploy a `dds` world and a `ros2` world that will be connected thanks to `soss`.

## Prerequisites
### Ros2
Any version of `ros2` (either `crystal`, `dashing`, or `eloquent`) is valid for the purpose of this tutorial.

To install it, you can take a look to the
[official documentation](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/Eloquent/Linux-Install-Binary/).

In order to test it (supposing eloquent), please open two terminals and do the following:
- First terminal:
  ```

>   source ~/ros2_eloquent/install/setup.bash

Reviewer: This seems to be so, but the previously linked page shows that path (https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/Eloquent/Linux-Install-Binary/#sourcing-the-setup-script).

Maybe the tutorial is bad, did you check it?

Author: Yes I checked it. It doesn't work for me. On my pc it only works with "install" in spite of "ros2-linux", that's why I changed it.

Reviewer: As we talk, this is due to the installation way, in this case, by binaries.

  ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker
  ```
- Second terminal:
  ```

>   source ~/ros2_eloquent/install/setup.bash

Reviewer: Same comment here

Author: Same.

Once you have `Fast-RTPS-Gen` installed you can execute it from the script found at `scripts/fastrptsgen`.
We strongly recommend to add this `scripts` folder to the path in order to execute the script easily from everywhere.

In order to test your `dds` installation you can follow the steps found
[here](https://fast-rtps.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/introduction.html).

You need to be able to create and connect a publisher and a subscriber.

Note: for the purpose of this tutorial, when generating code with `Fast-RTPS-Gen`, add the `-example` flag
to get a functional publisher and subscriber for the generated type.

### SOSS
To use soss, you need to create a _colcon workspace_ with the packages you want to use.
Four our purpose, we need to add two repositories to our workspace:
- `https://github.com/osrf/soss` that offers the soss core and ros2 system handle.
- `https://github.com/eProsima/soss-dds` that offers the dds system handle.
Both repositories must be placed into the `src` folder of our _colcon workspace_.

Before compiling it with colcon, we need to _source_ the ros2 environment as follows (supposing eloquent and linux):
```

> source ~/ros2_eloquent/install/setup.bash

Reviewer: Same comment here

Author: Same.

```
This is needed to fetch all tools and dependencies from `ros2` in order to compile the _ros2 system handle_.
Then we can compile by simply writing the following command from our colcon workspace:
```
colcon build
```

## DDS-ROS2 use case
In our use case we want communicate a ros2 world that is using the `std_msgs/String` type,

> with a dds world that is using a dds type defined in the `HelloWorld.idl` file found in the _fastrtps getting started_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with a dds world that is using a type defined in the `HelloWorld.idl` file found in the _fastrtps getting started_.
```
dds seems redundant here

```

You can find this yaml file here: [`dds_ros2_string.yaml`](examples/udp/dds_ros2_string.yaml)

### Configure `Fast-RTPS` publisher and subscriber
The previously generated example of Fast-RTPS communicates the dds world publisher and subscriber between them.
Here we do not want this behavior, and we want instead to publish from `dds` into `ros2` and to subscribe to `dds` from `ros2`.
To achieve this, we need to modify the topic names of both the publisher and subscriber `.cxx` example files.

#### `HelloWorldPublisher.cxx`
Search the line containing the `topicName` of the publisher
```c++

> Wparam.topic.topicName = "HelloWorldPubSubTopic";

Reviewer: Upss!! You are right!

```

> and modify it with a different topic name, for instance the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and modify it with a different topic name, as follows:
```
For the proposed `yaml`, this change is mandatory to make it works

```

#### `HelloWorldSubscriber.cxx`
Analogously to the above publisher modification, search the `topicName` line of the subscriber
```c++
Wparam.topic.topicName = "HelloWorldPubSubTopic";
```

> and modify it with a different topic name, for instance the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and modify it with a different topic name, as follows:
```

```c++
Wparam.topic.topicName = "hello_dds";
```

Once the files have been modified, we need to compile them.
Simply, write `make` in your build folder.

> If we now run the dds world publisher and subscriber, they will not match between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we now run both publisher and subscriber, they will not match between them.
```
This subsection is only talking about `dds`

### Deploy
To deploy the system we will need 5 terminals at the same time:
![](images/terminal_deploy.png)

#### Terminal 1
To publish the topic from ros2, we only need to write the following commands:
```

> source ~/ros2_eloquent/install/setup.bash

Reviewer: Same commet as before

ros2 topic pub /hello_dds std_msgs/String "{\"This is a message from ros2 to dds\"}"
```

#### Terminal 2
Similarly to what we did to publish from ros2, for subscribing we need to write:
```

> source ~/ros2_eloquent/install/setup.bash

Reviewer: Same commet as before

ros2 topic echo /hello_ros std_msgs/String
```

#### Terminal 3

> Placed into the build folder where you have generated the HelloWorld publisher and subscriber, run the dds world publisher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Placed into the build folder where you have generated the HelloWorld publisher and subscriber, run the dds publisher
```
The "jargon" when you refer to it is `dds publisher` without `world`

```
./HelloWorld publisher
```

#### Terminal 4

> As in terminal 3, run the dds world subscriber:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As in terminal 3, run the dds subscriber:
```

```
./HelloWorld subscriber
```

#### Terminal 5

> All matchings are made before running soss.

Reviewer: This sentence means the opposite, maybe I have wrongly expressed my self. I want to say that no matching has be done before soss

Author: Ah ok. So maybe we could change it to: "No matching is made before running soss.".

Reviewer: Ok perfect!

Placed into the `soss` workspace, source both ros2 and your soss installation, and run the `soss` executable with the previous yaml.

```

> source ~/ros2_eloquent/install/setup.bash

Reviewer: Same as before

Author: Same.
